Segment 9

"Henri Duval, a neighbor, and by trade a silver-smith, de-poses that he
was one of the party who first entered the house. Corroborates the
testimony of Musèt in general. As soon as they forced an entrance, they
reclosed the door, to keep out the crowd, which collected very fast,
notwithstanding the late-ness of the hour. The shrill voice, this
witness thinks, was that of an Italian. Was certain it was not French.
Could not be sure that it was a man's voice. It might have been a
woman's. Was not acquainted with the Italian language. Could not
distinguish the words, but was convinced by the intonation that the
speaker was an Italian. Knew Madame L. and her daughter. Had conversed
with both frequently. Was sure that the shrill voice was not that of
either of the deceased.

"—— Odenheimer, restaurateur.— This witness volunteered his testimony.
Not speaking French, was examined through an interpreter. Is a native of
Amsterdam. Was passing the house at the time of the shrieks. They lasted
for several minutes—probably ten. They were long and loud—very awful and
distressing. Was one of those who entered the building. Corroborated the
previous evidence in every respect but one. Was sure that the shrill
voice was that of a man—of a French-man. Could not distinguish the words
uttered. They were loud and quick—unequal—spoken apparently in fear as
well as in anger. The voice was harsh—not so much shrill as harsh. Could
not call it a shrill voice. The gruff voice said repeatedly 'sacré,'
'diable,' and once 'mon Dieu. '

"Jules Mignaud, banker, of the firm of Mignaud et Fils, Rue Deloraine.
Is the elder Mignaud. Madame L'Espanaye had some property. Had opened an
account with his banking house in the spring of the year—(eight years
previously). Made fre-quent deposits in small sums. Had checked for
nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in
person the sum of 4000 francs. This sum was paid in gold, and a clerk
went home with the money.

"Adolphe Le Bon, clerk to Mignaud et Fils, deposes that on the day in
question, about noon, he accompanied Madame L'Espanaye to her residence
with the 4000 francs, put up in two bags. Upon the door being opened,
Mademoiselle L. ap-peared and took from his hands one of the bags, while
the old lady relieved him of the other. He then bowed and departed. Did
not see any person in the street at the time. It is a bye-street—very
lonely.

"William Bird, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who entered
the house. Is an Englishman.
