Segment 6

That you did combine them I saw by the character of the smile which
passed over your lips. You thought of the poor cobbler's immolation. So
far, you had been stooping in your gait; but now I saw you draw yourself
up to your full height. I was then sure that you reflec-ted upon the
diminutive figure of Chantilly. At this point I inter-rupted your
meditations to remark that as, in fact, he was a very little fellow—that
Chantilly—he would do better at the Théâtre des Variétés."

Not long after this, we were looking over an evening edition of the
Gazette des Tribunaux, when the following paragraphs arrested our
attention.

"EXTRAORDINARY MURDERS.—This morning, about three o'clock, the
inhabitants of the Quartier St. Roch were aroused from sleep by a
succession of terrific shrieks, issuing, appar-ently, from the fourth
story of a house in the Rue Morgue, known to be in the sole occupancy of
one Madame L'Espanaye, and her daughter Mademoiselle Camille L'Espanaye.
After some delay, occasioned by a fruitless attempt to procure
ad-mission in the usual manner, the gateway was broken in with a
crowbar, and eight or ten of the neighbors entered accompan-ied by two
gendarmes. By this time the cries had ceased; but, as the party rushed
up the first flight of stairs, two or more rough voices in angry
contention were distinguished and seemed to proceed from the upper part
of the house. As the second landing was reached, these sounds, also, had
ceased and everything remained perfectly quiet. The party spread
themselves and hurried from room to room. Upon arriving at a large back
chamber in the fourth story, (the door of which, be-ing found locked,
with the key inside, was forced open,) a spec-tacle presented itself
which struck every one present not less with horror than with
astonishment.

"The apartment was in the wildest disorder—the furniture broken and
thrown about in all directions. There was only one bedstead; and from
this the bed had been removed, and thrown into the middle of the floor.
On a chair lay a razor, besmeared with blood. On the hearth were two or
three long and thick tresses of grey human hair, also dabbled in blood,
and seeming to have been pulled out by the roots. Upon the floor were
found four Napoleons, an ear-ring of topaz, three large silver spoons,
three smaller of métal d'Alger, and two bags, contain-ing nearly four
thousand francs in gold. The drawers of a bur-eau, which stood in one
corner were open, and had been, ap-parently, rifled, although many
articles still remained in them.
