Segment 3

At the first dawn of the morning we closed all the messy shutters of our
old building; lighting a couple of tapers which, strongly perfumed,
threw out only the ghastliest and feeblest of rays. By the aid of these
we then busied our souls in dreams—reading, writing, or conversing,
until warned by the clock of the advent of the true Darkness. Then we
sal-lied forth into the streets arm in arm, continuing the topics of the
day, or roaming far and wide until a late hour, seeking, amid the wild
lights and shadows of the populous city, that in-finity of mental
excitement which quiet observation can afford.

At such times I could not help remarking and admiring (al-though from
his rich ideality I had been prepared to expect it) a peculiar analytic
ability in Dupin. He seemed, too, to take an eager delight in its
exercise—if not exactly in its display—and did not hesitate to confess
the pleasure thus derived. He boas-ted to me, with a low chuckling
laugh, that most men, in re-spect to himself, wore windows in their
bosoms, and was wont to follow up such assertions by direct and very
startling proofs of his intimate knowledge of my own. His manner at
these mo-ments was frigid and abstract; his eyes were vacant in
expres-sion; while his voice, usually a rich tenor, rose into a treble
which would have sounded petulantly but for the deliberate-ness and
entire distinctness of the enunciation. Observing him in these moods, I
often dwelt meditatively upon the old philo-sophy of the Bi-Part Soul,
and amused myself with the fancy of a double Dupin—the creative and the
resolvent.

Let it not be supposed, from what I have just said, that I am detailing
any mystery, or penning any romance. What I have described in the
Frenchman, was merely the result of an ex-cited, or perhaps of a
diseased intelligence. But of the

character of his remarks at the periods in question an example will best
convey the idea.

We were strolling one night down a long dirty street in the vicinity of
the Palais Royal. Being both, apparently, occupied with thought, neither
of us had spoken a syllable for fifteen minutes at least. All at once
Dupin broke forth with these words:

"He is a very little fellow, that's true, and would do better for the
Théâtre des Variétés."

"There can be no doubt of that," I replied unwittingly, and not at first
observing (so much had I been absorbed in reflec-tion) the extraordinary
manner in which the speaker had chimed in with my meditations. In an
instant afterward I recol-lected myself, and my astonishment was
profound.
