Segment 10

Has lived in Paris two years. Was one of the first to ascend the stairs.
Heard the voices in contention. The gruff voice was that of a Frenchman.
Could make out several words, but cannot now remember all. Heard
distinctly 'sacré' and 'mon Dieu.' There was a sound at the moment as if
of several persons struggling—a scraping and scuffling sound. The shrill
voice was very loud—louder than the gruff one. Is sure that it was not
the voice of an Englishman. Appeared to be that of a German. Might have
been a woman's voice. Does not understand German.

"Four of the above-named witnesses, being recalled, deposed that the
door of the chamber in which was found the body of Mademoiselle L. was
locked on the inside when the party reached it. Every thing was
perfectly silent—no groans or noises of any kind. Upon forcing the door
no person was seen. The windows, both of the back and front room, were
down and firmly fastened from within. A door between the two rooms was
closed, but not locked. The door leading from the front room into the
passage was locked, with the key on the inside. A small room in the
front of the house, on the fourth story, at the head of the passage was
open, the door being ajar. This room was crowded with old beds, boxes,
and so forth. These were carefully removed and searched. There was not
an inch of any portion of the house which was not carefully searched.
Sweeps were sent up and down the chimneys. The house was a four story
one, with garrets (mansardes). A trap-door on the roof was nailed down
very securely—did not appear to have been opened for years. The time
elapsing between the hearing of the voices in contention and the
breaking open of the room door, was variously stated by the witnesses.
Some made it as short as three minutes—some as long as five. The door
was opened with difficulty.

"Alfonzo Garcio, undertaker, deposes that he resides in the Rue Morgue.
Is a native of Spain. Was one of the party who entered the house. Did
not proceed up stairs. Is nervous, and was apprehensive of the
consequences of agitation. Heard the voices in contention. The gruff
voice was that of a Frenchman. Could not distinguish what was said. The
shrill voice was that of an Englishman—is sure of this. Does not
understand the English language, but judges by the intonation.

"Alberto Montani, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first to
ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in question. The gruff voice was
that of a Frenchman. Distinguished several words. The speaker appeared
to be expostulating.
