Segment 2

Residing in Paris during the spring and part of the summer of 18—, I
there became acquainted with a Monsieur C. Auguste Dupin. This young
gentleman was of an excellent—indeed of an illustrious family, but, by a
variety of untoward events, had been reduced to such poverty that the
energy of his character succumbed beneath it, and he ceased to bestir
himself in the world, or to care for the retrieval of his fortunes. By
courtesy of his creditors, there still remained in his possession a
small remnant of his patrimony; and, upon the income arising from this,
he managed, by means of a rigorous economy, to procure the necessaries
of life, without troubling himself about its su-perfluities. Books,
indeed, were his sole luxuries, and in Paris these are easily obtained.

Our first meeting was at an obscure library in the Rue Mont-martre,
where the accident of our both being in search of the same very rare and
very remarkable volume, brought us into closer communion. We saw each
other again and again. I was deeply interested in the little family
history which he detailed to me with all that candor which a Frenchman
indulges whenever mere self is his theme. I was astonished, too, at the
vast extent of his reading; and, above all, I felt my soul en-kindled
within me by the wild fervor, and the vivid freshness of his
imagination. Seeking in Paris the objects I then sought, I felt that the
society of such a man would be to me a treasure beyond price; and this
feeling I frankly confided to him. It was at length arranged that we
should live together during my stay in the city; and as my worldly
circumstances were somewhat less embarrassed than his own, I was
permitted to be at the ex-pense of renting, and furnishing in a style
which suited the rather fantastic gloom of our common temper, a
time-eaten and grotesque mansion, long deserted through superstitions
in-to which we did not inquire, and tottering to its fall in a retired
and desolate portion of the Faubourg St. Germain.

Had the routine of our life at this place been known to the world, we
should have been regarded as madmen—although, perhaps, as madmen of a
harmless nature. Our seclusion was perfect.

It was a freak of fancy in my friend (for what else shall I call it?) to
be enamored of the Night for her own sake; and into this bizarrerie, as
into all his others, I quietly fell; giving myself up to his wild whims
with a perfect abandon. The sable divinity would not herself dwell with
us always; but we could counter-feit her presence.
