Segment 4

"Dupin," said I, gravely, "this is beyond my comprehension. I do not
hesitate to say that I am amazed, and can scarcely cred-it my senses.
How was it possible you should know I was think-ing of ———?" Here I
paused, to ascertain beyond a doubt whether he really knew of whom I
thought.

—"of Chantilly," said he, "why do you pause? You were re-marking to
yourself that his diminutive figure unfitted him for tragedy."

This was precisely what had formed the subject of my reflec-tions.
Chantilly was a quondam cobbler of the Rue St. Denis, who, becoming
stage-mad, had attempted the rôle of Xerxes, in Crébillon's tragedy so
called, and been notoriously Pasquin-aded for his pains.

"Tell me, for Heaven's sake," I exclaimed, "the method—if method there
is—by which you have been enabled to fathom my soul in this matter." In
fact I was even more startled than I would have been willing to express.

"It was the fruiterer," replied my friend, "who brought you to the
conclusion that the mender of soles was not of sufficient height for
Xerxes et id genus omne."

"The fruiterer!—you astonish me—I know no fruiterer whomsoever."

"The man who ran up against you as we entered the street—it may have
been fifteen minutes ago."

I now remembered that, in fact, a fruiterer, carrying upon his head a
large basket of apples, had nearly thrown me down, by

accident, as we passed from the Rue C —— into the thorough-fare where we
stood; but what this had to do with Chantilly I could not possibly
understand.

There was not a particle of charlâtanerie about Dupin. "I will explain,"
he said, "and that you may comprehend all clearly, we will first retrace
the course of your meditations, from the mo-ment in which I spoke to you
until that of the rencontre with the fruiterer in question. The larger
links of the chain run thus—Chantilly, Orion, Dr. Nichols, Epicurus,
Stereotomy, the street stones, the fruiterer."

There are few persons who have not, at some period of their lives,
amused themselves in retracing the steps by which par-ticular
conclusions of their own minds have been attained. The occupation is
often full of interest and he who attempts it for the first time is
astonished by the apparently illimitable dis-tance and incoherence
between the starting-point and the goal.
