Segment 8

"Pierre Moreau, tobacconist, deposes that he has been in the habit of
selling small quantities of tobacco and snuff to Ma-dame L'Espanaye for
nearly four years. Was born in the neigh-borhood, and has always resided
there. The deceased and her daughter had occupied the house in which the
corpses were found, for more than six years. It was formerly occupied by
a jeweller, who under-let the upper rooms to various persons. The house
was the property of Madame L. She became dissat-isfied with the abuse of
the premises by her tenant, and moved into them herself, refusing to let
any portion. The old lady was childish. Witness had seen the daughter
some five or six times during the six years. The two lived an
exceedingly retired life—were reputed to have money. Had heard it said
among the neighbors that Madame L. told fortunes—did not believe it. Had
never seen any person enter the door except the old lady and her
daughter, a porter once or twice, and a physician some eight or ten
times.

"Many other persons, neighbors, gave evidence to the same effect. No one
was spoken of as frequenting the house. It was not known whether there
were any living connexions of Ma-dame L. and her daughter. The shutters
of the front windows were seldom opened. Those in the rear were always
closed, with the exception of the large back room, fourth story. The
house was a good house—not very old.

"Isidore Musèt, gendarme, deposes that he was called to the house about
three o'clock in the morning, and found some twenty or thirty persons at
the gateway, endeavoring to gain admittance. Forced it open, at length,
with a bayonet—not with a crowbar. Had but little difficulty in getting
it open, on ac-count of its being a double or folding gate, and bolted
neither at bottom not top. The shrieks were continued until the gate was
forced—and then suddenly ceased. They seemed to be screams of some
person (or persons) in great agony—were loud and drawn out, not short
and quick. Witness led the way up stairs. Upon reaching the first
landing, heard two voices in loud and angry contention—the one a gruff
voice, the other much shriller—a very strange voice. Could distinguish
some words of the former, which was that of a Frenchman. Was pos-itive
that it was not a woman's voice. Could distinguish the words 'sacré' and
'diable.' The shrill voice was that of a for-eigner. Could not be sure
whether it was the voice of a man or of a woman. Could not make out what
was said, but believed the language to be Spanish. The state of the room
and of the bodies was described by this witness as we described them
yesterday.
