Segment 7

A small iron safe was discovered under the bed (not under the bedstead).
It was open, with the key still in the door. It had no contents beyond a
few old letters, and other papers of little consequence.

"Of Madame L'Espanaye no traces were here seen; but an unusual quantity
of soot being observed in the fire-place, a search was made in the
chimney, and (horrible to relate!) the; corpse of the daughter, head
downward, was dragged there-from; it having been thus forced up the
narrow aperture for a considerable distance. The body was quite warm.
Upon ex-amining it, many excoriations were perceived, no doubt
occa-sioned by the violence with which it had been thrust up and
disengaged. Upon the face were many severe scratches, and, upon the
throat, dark bruises, and deep indentations of finger nails, as if the
deceased had been throttled to death.

"After a thorough investigation of every portion of the house, without
farther discovery, the party made its way into a small paved yard in the
rear of the building, where lay the corpse of

the old lady, with her throat so entirely cut that, upon an at-tempt to
raise her, the head fell off. The body, as well as the head, was
fearfully mutilated—the former so much so as scarcely to retain any
semblance of humanity.

"To this horrible mystery there is not as yet, we believe, the slightest
clew."

  The next day's paper had these additional particulars.

"The Tragedy in the Rue Morgue.—Many individuals have been examined in
relation to this most extraordinary and frightful affair. [The word
'affaire' has not yet, in France, that levity of import which it conveys
with us,] "but nothing whatever has transpired to throw light upon it.
We give below all the material testimony elicited.

"Pauline Dubourg, laundress, deposes that she has known both the
deceased for three years, having washed for them during that period. The
old lady and her daughter seemed on good terms—very affectionate towards
each other. They were excellent pay. Could not speak in regard to their
mode or means of living. Believed that Madame L. told fortunes for a
living. Was reputed to have money put by. Never met any per-sons in the
house when she called for the clothes or took them home. Was sure that
they had no servant in employ. There ap-peared to be no furniture in any
part of the building except in the fourth story.
