Segment 5

What, then, must have been my amazement when I heard the Frenchman speak
what he had just spoken, and when I could not help acknowledging that he
had spoken the truth. He continued:

"We had been talking of horses, if I remember aright, just be-fore
leaving the Rue C —— . This was the last subject we dis-cussed. As we
crossed into this street, a fruiterer, with a large basket upon his
head, brushing quickly past us, thrust you upon a pile of paving stones
collected at a spot where the causeway is undergoing repair. You stepped
upon one of the loose fragments, slipped, slightly strained your ankle,
appeared vexed or sulky, muttered a few words, turned to look at the
pile, and then proceeded in silence. I was not particularly at-tentive
to what you did; but observation has become with me, of late, a species
of necessity.

"You kept your eyes upon the ground—glancing, with a petu-lant
expression, at the holes and ruts in the pavement, (so that I saw you
were still thinking of the stones,) until we reached the little alley
called Lamartine, which has been paved, by way of experiment, with the
overlapping and riveted blocks. Here your countenance brightened up,
and, perceiving your lips move, I could not doubt that you murmured the
word 'ste-reotomy,' a term very affectedly applied to this species of
pave-ment. I knew that you could not say to yourself 'stereotomy'

without being brought to think of atomies, and thus of the the-ories of
Epicurus; and since, when we discussed this subject not very long ago, I
mentioned to you how singularly, yet with how little notice, the vague
guesses of that noble Greek had met with confirmation in the late
nebular cosmogony, I felt that you could not avoid casting your eyes
upward to the great neb-ula in Orion, and I certainly expected that you
would do so. You did look up; and I was now assured that I had correctly
fol-lowed your steps. But in that bitter tirade upon Chantilly, which
appeared in yesterday's 'Musée,' the satirist, making some disgraceful
allusions to the cobbler's change of name upon assuming the buskin,
quoted a Latin line about which we have often conversed. I mean the line

  Perdidit antiquum litera sonum.

I had told you that this was in reference to Orion, formerly written
Urion; and, from certain pungencies connected with this explanation, I
was aware that you could not have forgotten it. It was clear, therefore,
that you would not fail to combine the two ideas of Orion and Chantilly.
