Segment 1

The necessary knowledge is that of what to observe. Our play-er confines
himself not at all; nor, because the game is the ob-ject, does he reject
deductions from things external to the game. He examines the countenance
of his partner, comparing it carefully with that of each of his
opponents. He considers the mode of assorting the cards in each hand;
often counting trump by trump, and honor by honor, through the glances
be-stowed by their holders upon each. He notes every variation of face
as the play progresses, gathering a fund of thought from the differences
in the expression of certainty, of surprise, of tri-umph, or of chagrin.
From the manner of gathering up a trick he judges whether the person
taking it can make another in the suit. He recognises what is played
through feint, by the air with which it is thrown upon the table. A
casual or inadvertent word; the accidental dropping or turning of a
card, with the ac-companying anxiety or carelessness in regard to its
conceal-ment; the counting of the tricks, with the order of their
ar-rangement; embarrassment, hesitation, eagerness or trepida-tion—all
afford, to his apparently intuitive perception, indica-tions of the true
state of affairs. The first two or three rounds having been played, he
is in full possession of the contents of each hand, and thenceforward
puts down his cards with as ab-solute a precision of purpose as if the
rest of the party had turned outward the faces of their own.

The analytical power should not be confounded with ample ingenuity; for
while the analyst is necessarily ingenious, the in-genious man is often
remarkably incapable of analysis. The constructive or combining power,
by which ingenuity is usually manifested, and to which the phrenologists
(I believe erro-neously) have assigned a separate organ, supposing it a
primit-ive faculty, has been so frequently seen in those whose
intel-lect bordered otherwise upon idiocy, as to have attracted gen-eral
observation among writers on morals. Between ingenuity and the analytic
ability there exists a difference far greater, in-deed, than that
between the fancy and the imagination, but of a character very strictly
analogous. It will be found, in fact, that the ingenious are always
fanciful, and the truly imaginat-ive never otherwise than analytic.

The narrative which follows will appear to the reader some-what in the
light of a commentary upon the propositions just advanced.
